Load pretrained models (#284)
Oneflow-Inc/libai: docs/source/notes/How_to_load_huggingface's_pretrained_model_in_libai.md

 └── oneflow_model

# Huggingface pretrained model
$ tree pretrained_model_dir
path/to/pretrained_model_dir/
 ├── pytorch_model.bin
 └── config.json
```

## Start Loading
You can load pretrained BERT as following:
```python
import libai
from libai.models.utils import BertLoaderHuggerFace, BertLoaderLiBai
from libai.config.configs.common.models.bert import cfg

# load huggingface weight
loader = BertLoaderHuggerFace(
    model=libai.models.BertModel,
    libai_cfg=cfg,
    pretrained_model_path='path/to/huggingface_pretrained_model_directory',
    hidden_dropout_prob=0,
)
bert = loader.load()

# load libai weight
loader = BertLoaderLiBai(
    model=libai.models.BertModel,
    libai_cfg=cfg,
    pretrained_model_path='path/to/libai_pretrained_model_directory',
    hidden_dropout_prob=0,
)
bert = loader.load()
```

# Use Custom ModelLoader

## Model Loader for HuggerFace
If you want to define your own HuggerFace's model loader, you can inherit the base `ModelLoaderHuggerFace` in `libai.models.utils.model_utils.base_loader`.

Then you need to overwrite the `_convert_state_dict` and `_load_config_from_json` method to load HuggingFace's pretrained model in LiBai. 

> Finally, you need set `base_model_prefix_1` and `base_model_prefix_2` argument, which represent the base model name for HuggingFace and LiBai respectively.

Reviewer: 这里的`base_model_prefix_1` 和 `base_model_prefix_2`  代表着什么意义,  
在load模型的时候需要怎么设置,  我还是比较迷糊.

Author: 这里的prefix就是state_dict中key的基础模型名字，是一个前缀，其实就是pretraining model中的base model
比如huggingface中：
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53039617/181462791-d29bc4bb-4969-48e4-8000-95de945a7eac.png)
李白中：
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53039617/181463096-908f62ab-a599-4e59-91bf-f21521777d17.png)
huggingface中的gpt：
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53039617/181463289-d36817d9-c4eb-4133-9d59-6e19107054d4.png)

Author: 然后这个base_model_prefix的意义其实是这样：
NLP中预训练模型(PretrainModel)的参数都是一个base_model和一个分类头组成的，保存下来的参数形式是:
```bash
gpt.embedding.word_embedding
gpt.layernorm
lm_head.dense
lm_head.bias
```
当GPTModel加载GPTLMHeadModel的时候GPTModel的GPTModel.state_dict()是这样，不包含prefix：
```bash
embedding.word_embedding
layernorm
```
所以GPTModel加载GPTLMHeadModel的时候ModelLoader会先判断该模型带不带prefix，不带的话会加上，还有匹配需要加载的key和model的key的作用

Reviewer: 那 分类头 的权重 load进去了呀?

Author: 就是GPTModel加载GPTLMHeadModel的时候不会load分类头，因为没匹配到key

Reviewer: 但其实那个分类头的权重其实是可以在hugging face的`lm_head`上load到的吧?
是不是可以直接把hugging face gpt上的`lm_head`的权重 load到libai gpt上的`GPT_MODEL.lm_head`上就可以了

Author: 是的，可以加载的，有的话就会加载

# How to load Huggingface's pretrained model in LiBai
In this tutorial, we will introduce to users how to instantiate a pretrained oneflow model from huggingface's pre-trained model configuration.

## Steps
1. Prepare pretrained model weights file.
- Huggingface's pretrained model weights file(`pytorch_model.bin`) can be downloaded from https://huggingface.co/models.
- OneFlow's pretrained model weights saved using [`oneflow.save()`].

2. Prepare config file.
- Config file(`config.json`) can be downloaded from https://huggingface.co/models.

3. Move the files to the folder. The file structure should be like:
```bash
$ tree my_pre_trained_model_directory
path/to/my_pre_trained_model_directory/
├── pytorch_model.bin or oneflow_model

> └── vocab.json

Reviewer 2: 这个 `vocab.json` 是上面提到的 `config.json` 吗

Author: 哦哦 不好意思 写错了 应该是config.json

```

## Start Loading
You can load pretrained BERT as following:
```python
import libai
from libai.models.utils.model_utils import LoadPretrainedBert
from libai.config.configs.common.models.bert import cfg

load_fucntion = LoadPretrainedBert(
    model=libai.models.BertModel,
    default_cfg=cfg,
    pretrained_model_path='path/to/my_pre_trained_model_directory'
    )

> bert = my_class.load_model()

Reviewer 2: 这个 `my_class` 是哪里实例化的，没看到

Author: 已修改

- `OneFlow`'s pretrained model weights saved using [`oneflow.save()`].
- `Huggingface`'s pretrained model weights file(`pytorch_model.bin`) can be downloaded from https://huggingface.co/models.

2. Prepare config file.
> The config file is required when loading the `Transformers` model.
> When loading OneFlow config file, only need to import it from `configs/common/models`.
- Config file(`config.json`) can be downloaded from https://huggingface.co/models.

3. Move the files to the folder. The file structure should be like:
```bash
# Load OneFlow model
$ tree pretrained_model_dir
path/to/pretrained_model_dir/
 └── oneflow_model

# Load Transformers model
$ tree pretrained_model_dir
path/to/pretrained_model_dir/
 ├── pytorch_model.bin
 └── config.json
```

## Start Loading
You can load pretrained BERT as following:
```python
import libai
from libai.models.utils.model_utils import LoadPretrainedBert
from libai.config.configs.common.models.bert import cfg

load_fucntion = LoadPretrainedBert(
    model=libai.models.BertModel,
    default_cfg=cfg,
    pretrained_model_path='path/to/my_pre_trained_model_directory',
    hidden_dropout_prob=0
)
bert = load_fucntion.load_model()

> ```

Reviewer: 这里是不是可以加一个教程.  

怎么自定义 `custom load weight`  
需要继承那个class 然后重载哪些函数.

Author: 可以的，我加一下

Author: 已添加

# How to load pretrained model in LiBai
In this tutorial, we will introduce to users how to instantiate a pretrained oneflow model.

## Steps
1. Prepare pretrained model weights file, which can be the form of `OneFlow` or `Transfomers`.
- `OneFlow`'s pretrained model weights saved using [`oneflow.save()`].
- `Huggingface`'s pretrained model weights file(`pytorch_model.bin`) can be downloaded from https://huggingface.co/models.

2. Prepare config file.
> The config file is required when loading the `Transformers` model.
> When loading OneFlow config file, only need to import it from `configs/common/models`.

> - Config file(`config.json`) can be downloaded from https://huggingface.co/models.

Reviewer 2: 11和12两句话可以再重新组织一下，格式统一一下？
- `OneFlow`'s config file can be import directly from `configs/common/models`.
- `Huggingface`'s config file(`config.json`) can be downloaded from https://huggingface.co/models.

Author: 好的

> 3. Move the files to the folder. The file structure should be like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. The structure of the pretrained model folder should be like:
```

```bash

> # Load OneFlow model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# OneFlow pretrained model
```

$ tree pretrained_model_dir
path/to/pretrained_model_dir/
 └── oneflow_model

> # Load Transformers model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Huggingface pretrained model
```

$ tree pretrained_model_dir
path/to/pretrained_model_dir/
 ├── pytorch_model.bin
 └── config.json
```

## Start Loading
You can load pretrained BERT as following:
```python
import libai

> from libai.models.utils import BertLoaderHuugerFace, BertLoaderLiBai

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from libai.models.utils import BertLoaderHuggerFace, BertLoaderLiBai
```

from libai.config.configs.common.models.bert import cfg

# load huggingface weight

> loader = BertLoaderHuugerFace(

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
loader = BertLoaderHuggerFace(
```

    model=libai.models.BertModel,
    libai_cfg=cfg,

>     pretrained_model_path='path/to/my_pretrained_model_directory',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pretrained_model_path='path/to/huggingface_pretrained_model_directory',
```

    hidden_dropout_prob=0,
)
bert = loader.load()

# load libai weight
loader = BertLoaderLiBai(
    model=libai.models.BertModel,
    libai_cfg=cfg,

>     pretrained_model_path='path/to/my_pretrained_model_directory',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    pretrained_model_path='path/to/libai_pretrained_model_directory',
```

    hidden_dropout_prob=0,
)
bert = loader.load()
```

# Use Custom ModelLoader

> ## ModelLoaderHuggerFace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Model Loader for HuggerFace
```

> If you want to define your own ModelLoaderHuggerFace, you can inherit the base ModelLoaderHuggerFace in `libai.models.utils.model_utils.base_loader`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to define your own HuggerFace's model loader, you can inherit the base `ModelLoaderHuggerFace` in `libai.models.utils.model_utils.base_loader`.
```

> Then you need to overwrite the `_convert_state_dict` and `_load_config_from_json` method to use your own ModelLoaderHuggerFace which can be implemented to load HuggingFace's pretrained model in LiBai. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then you need to overwrite the `_convert_state_dict` and `_load_config_from_json` method to load HuggingFace's pretrained model in LiBai. 
```

> Finally, you need set `base_model_prefix_1` and `base_model_prefix_2` argument, which represent the base model name in HuggingFace and the base model name in LiBai.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, you need set `base_model_prefix_1` and `base_model_prefix_2` argument, which represent the base model name for HuggingFace and LiBai respectively.
```

> ## ModelLoaderLiBai

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Model Loader for LiBai
```

> If you want to define your own ModelLoaderLiBai, you can inherit the base ModelLoaderLiBai in `libai.models.utils.model_utils.base_loader`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to define your own LiBai's model loader, you can inherit the `ModelLoaderLiBai` base class in `libai.models.utils.model_utils.base_loader`.
```

> You just need to set `base_model_prefix_2` argument to load LiBai's pretrained model.

Reviewer: 这里能不能给个简单的 代码示例.   

函数内容用 `...` 代替就可以了.

Author: 可以的，我分别加一个

Author: 全部已修改

> You just need set `base_model_prefix_2` argument to load LiBai's pretrained model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You just need to set `base_model_prefix_2` argument to load LiBai's pretrained model.
```

Author: 好的，全部已修改
